# Introduction to Analytics

## What is Analytics?
### Analytics is drawing conclusions from data

Some other definitions may focus on statistics, or instead creation of information as opposed to conclusions or decisions.
This courses approach approach for accountants is analytics has value if it informs decision-making in a meaningful manner.
One measure of the value of analytics is the information value contained, which will be explored further.

An alternative definition is "Data-driven decision making" or making decisions with data. This approach separates out, analytics for informational purposes from analytics that creates business value.

### Examples of drawing conclusions from data
1. This accounting election should be made because it will better align with internal and investor expectations for our financial statements.
2. Our analytics supports a practical expedient because it is below a certain materiality threshold for SOX.
3. If we use our classification model for accounts receivable, we can better forecast credit and payback performance. This impacts our reserves as well as our understanding of working capital requirements.
Additionally, these metrics can also support the sales team when evaluating the risk and profitability of new customers.
4. Our analysis shows the available value of information here is $*x* million, so it is worthwhile to hire a consultant to improve our ability to capture that value.
5. Fraud more commonly occurs with these segments of customers, we should implement stronger controls to save the company up to $*x* million.

### Example: Meeting effectiveness
A common measure for corporate decision-making and meeting effectiveness is the speed and volume of decisions made and the measurement of performance against those decisions. If analytics does not inform decision-making, it is slowing down or hindering the business process. Additionally, if analytics is too manual, slow, or lacks repeatability, decision-making can be dominated by intuition as opposed to data, which may result in poorer competitive performance.

#### References
[1] 2019, The Amazon Management System
